PAUL LEWIS: Well, aren't we
just finishing up the site?
That's pretty much where
I'm at, I think, sort of.
OK, let me list
what's at least to do.
There's basically putting
in the final sessions,
and I'm still waiting on those.
There's push messaging
and notifications
if I can get to it in time.
And I think there might be one
other thing that's escaping me
at this exact moment.
If it's important,
I'll remember it.
If not, I won't.
I have a to-do list somewhere.
It'll probably be on there.
But since I last recorded a
video-- it's been a few days.
And the reason it's
been a few days
is because I have been working
on the service worker part.
And I wanted to try and
get that just right.
And it's working.
I mean, I've had a service
worker in place from the start.
But I don't know
if you remember,
but it basically was like a
pass-through service worker.
It didn't do anything
in particular.
All requests just
went through it.
And it was a fetch to go
and get the resources.
And the next step for
me was to actually
have it populate
a cache of items,
and actually respond
from the cache,
and do a couple of
other bits and pieces.
So let's actually have
a look at the code
because I think that
will illuminate things.
Firstly, though, we'll
go into the Python
because I have got to the point
now where we basically hot swap
the home page.
Well, hot swapping the home
page is related to this item.
I now have a JSON file of
the actual sessions, which
is currently filled out
with nonsense sessions
that I have just
made up for now.
And you can see that the data
is the first key and then
the time of each,
and this is in PST
because that's the time zone
of the-- of Chrome Dev Summit.
It's in San
Francisco, which will
be PST, which means it's, I
think, seven hours behind UTC
or GMT as you might
call it, depending
on how you refer to time zones.
I mean, who doesn't just sit
there referring to time zones?
I know I do.
So I've got the JSON
file, and the JSON file
is loaded in by the Python.
And that's actually
important because I do things
like I basically
start to step through.
Basically the
sessions file is now
the source of all sorts of
bits and pieces in the site.
For example, I've moved
the filters out as well,
out to their own file.
So you've got things like
getting the current session.
And so we get the
current UTC time,
and we step through all
the individual sessions
from that JSON file.
I have to add seven hours
on, which is that there.
This is a bit of a funny
way to do date parsing.
Normally you'd pass it things.
But because I need to adjust
the time-- I don't know.
I might go back to this
now that I've actually got
it working and just tidy it up.
Because I could ask to
parse it based on-- I
could make a string and then
ask it to parse it properly
rather than doing it this way.
It's a bit of a
funny way to do it.
But we have things for
getting the current session,
getting the next session.
And there are some interesting
bits and pieces in there.
Like you have to make
sure that the next session
has a different day
to the current day
and bits and pieces like that.
But it's all dynamic.
And also, when it comes to
the actual home page, which
is this, if template is
non, as in the home page,
we have to make a
decision based on the time
as the server thinks it is.
But that's OK because
all these things
are in UTC anyway mostly.
Basically, if the number of
days between the first day
of the conference and today
is zero adjusting for PST,
then it's the live day one.
If it's the second
day, live day two,
because these will, I think,
have different YouTube embeds.
So I have to have
effectively different files
for those, different templates.
And then a final one is we're on
neither day of the conference,
so show the home page.
This works just fine.
In fact, let me just
show you what happens.
I will do this without
any service worker.
So we'll just directly--
if you hit Command-Shift-R,
if you working on
service workers,
Command-Shift-R will actually
cause your page to load.
You can see it in
the networks there,
cause it to load without
any service worker.
And none of those
requests are going
through the service worker.
And so that can be a really
good way to sort of test that,
is my server actually
responding with the right things
before I introduce
the service worker?
Also, while we're here, let me
just change the date and time.
So I've set it to
yesterday, if you like.
So let's set it to the
first day of the conference
and then hit
Command-Shift-R. And you
can see that not only
is it-- let me just move
this out of the way.
I'll do that.
Actually, we'll come back
to that in a little bit.
So you can see that I've
actually chosen the "Developer
Diary" day one so that I know
that this is actually the day
one.
It was just like, oh,
OK, yeah, it's definitely
doing the right template.
It's day one.
And you'll see that up next.
And this has been
adjusted for local time.
If I disable JavaScript
for a moment-- down here,
up here, Disable Javascript.
There you are.
Command-Shift-R, you can
see it's 8:00 AM PST.
Oh, it doesn't have
the title in there.
Oh, I'm going to go
back and fix that.
And if we re-enable
JavaScript, it's
the same content, once I've
got the title back in there,
but it's been adjusted
for the local time, which
is just done in the JavaScript.
I have a bit of JavaScript
that constantly-- well,
not constantly but
kind of watches
for changes in the
schedule, which
I can show you if this
video doesn't get too long.
Anyway, the theory,
then, is this is day one.
And you can see that, coming up
at 4 o'clock local time for me,
which is in about what?
Five hours, there
or thereabouts.
Five hours, it will be
registration and breakfast.
Obviously as we get
into the other sessions,
it'll make more sense.
Open Date and Time.
So let's say it is, in
fact, 6 o'clock in the UK.
You can see now we've got--
the current session is
Alex Russell and-- oh, good!
We've gone from breakfast
pretty much straight to lunch.
This time traveling thing
is working out just fine.
So anyway, and you
can see here, I've
got this refreshing listing in--
oh, just less than a minute.
We could wait and see
what happens next.
Duh dut dah dah!
I might get them
to time-lapse this.
[HUMMING] Still waiting.
There it goes.
Ah, it happened!
You can see that the one that
was up next becomes live,
and now the next one has
appeared in the listings.
So that it will be--
as the video is playing
I'll basically be
swapping the sessions.
So that's kind of what happens
with the live stuff, which
is all very, very cool.
And the code for that is
kicking around in Components.
There's the live session info,
which basically goes through.
In many ways, it's a duplicate
of those filters on the server
side, because it's got to
do similar kinds of things.
It's got to look through
that session JSON.
So they share that JSON.
The server-side and client-side,
both look at that same JSON
and make some decisions on
what the next session switch
time will be, which is basically
look for the next session
and find out what the
time is and then set
a timeout to basically go
and do it a check for that.
It works just fine.
Well, it seems to work
just fine, anyway.
So those all working.
You know, JavaScript, it
swaps sessions, all that.
Now if we reload and look
at the network, these,
all these requests are actually
coming from the service worker.
Let me show you
the service worker.
The service worker from the top,
import scripts, and then I'm
sure you recall the add
hash remark filter thing.
That basically is
going to make sure
that, if this file changes,
that this import scripts line is
going to actually be different.
So if we look at the
service worker itself,
you can see that it's
cached out manifest.
And then there's the long
alphanumeric hash string
that goes in there.
So if I change whatever the
contents are of this cache
manifest, then this
will be updated.
The service worker will update.
It will run its install,
and its activation,
and go through its lifecycle.
If, by the way, you have not
come across the service worker
lifecycle, there is a brand
new document guide article
thing on Google Web
Fundamentals, which
we will link to
in the description
and possibly they'll even put
one of those fancy annotations
on this video as well.
Who knows?
So what goes into
the cache manifest?
Glad you asked.
The cache manifest is here.
And you'll see
that it's basically
a list of all the things
that I want caching.
And good news, I don't create
those myself or this myself.
What I do is I go to--
I've made this file
called build resource list.
And I have a bunch of things
that I want it to ignore.
And I have a bunch of
resources, like URLs
that I know I definitely want,
like the various sections
of the site.
This partial flag
means that I actually
don't have the server bake in
any of the session information.
It just means that
they come through empty
because I know the
JavaScript is going
to populate them later on.
I also get the
session information.
And I go through each
session, and I get its URL
because I know I want
to cache that offline.
And then I walk through
the static file.
So I go through
dot slash static.
So basically the
static file here,
which has the images, the JSON,
the Javascripts-- excluding
the service worker
itself-- the styles,
and any third party stuff, and
manifest, and whatever else.
That, as I say, results in
this big, long file here.
And in the service worker,
once that gets imported
and whatever else, the
install essentially
steps through each of
those, and it makes
a request for each of those.
And it will wait until the
caches have been opened,
and we've added all those items.
And then it does
the skip waiting,
which basically means go
straight to the activated
stage.
So the lifecycle,
it's installing,
and then it waits until
all the clients that
are connected to
the service worker
have disconnected, as in you do,
like, a force refresh, or you
close the tab.
When all the tabs to the Chrome
Dev Summit site have closed,
it would normally then
switch the service worker
across to activating.
But in this case, I'm telling
it to just go straight
to the activating stage.
Don't worry about anything
that's already connected.
I'm hoping that
will work out fine.
I'm hoping there won't be any
breaking changes by doing that.
The activation itself looks
through previous installation
caches.
So every time we install
the service worker,
it populates the cache.
I'm saying, find all
those other caches that
aren't this one, the
one that we've just
populated through the
install, and get rid of them.
Delete those caches
so that we're not
building up space, and
space, and space over time.
This probably could
do with a little bit
of an improvement in that
I think it should possibly
have a couple of caches--
caches for things that are less
likely to change,
and caches for things
that are more likely to change,
like the JavaScript or the CSS.
I'm likely to find minor
things in there, minor bugs
that I just want to tweak
or change or whatever.
And so rather than
invalidating the whole cache
and downloading everything every
time, a better version of this
would be the things that I
think are likely to change,
those should have
their own cache
that I can just
delete and repopulate.
And the things that
I think are pretty
static and unlikely to change,
put them in their own cache
as well.
Again, well, it's a function
of time to see how we get on.
And this client's claim--
if I understand it
correctly-- on activation
when this service worker has
been activated, it
basically says, OK, I
will now respond to all future
requests from this point on.
So if the page then asks
for an image or a URL,
I will handle it.
And it basically pushes
the old service worker off
to wherever service
workers go when
they're not needed anymore.
Oh, on message, this is an
interesting little thing.
I mean, I think it's an
I wanted to do this.
I was like, how do I decide
whether to notify somebody?
Like if the service
worker changes,
it might be a minor change.
And I don't really want to
put a little thing that's
like, hey, new version, because
it might just be really minor.
It just might be like
a typo or something.
And I'm like, eh, it
can cope for next time.
What I do is the version
that's baked in here, which
is from the packaged-up JSON,
if it gets a message asking
for version-- and that message
will come from the page,
I'll show you that in
a moment-- it basically
posts a message back
saying, here's my version.
In the service worker
install-- where are you?
Where are you?
Yeah, if we've got an
active service worker,
we post a message going,
what's the version?
When that comes back, if we've
not already had a version,
then we store that.
And then if there's one
that's updating, as in we get,
so you've-- imagine
the situation.
You've got one service worker.
It's installed.
It's running.
It's activated.
It's doing its thing.
And then a new one comes in and
is like, OK, I'm taking over.
Well, we've asked the first
one, what's your version?
And it said 0.1, 0.0
because it's [INAUDIBLE].
Let me just do that.
Let's say 1.0.0.
That would have
been a better one.
And so we've got
that version back.
And then the new
one gets installed.
And we ask it,
what's your version?
And it comes back
and says, I'm 2.0.0.
I split the current and
the new version on dots.
And I basically said,
if the major version
is the same, just log it out
to the console going, yeah,
I updated the service worker.
If it's a major version
change, like 1.0 to 2.0,
then we push this toast.
that's like, really, you know,
you should refresh the site.
And again, these are
things that I might just
improve over the coming days.
We'll see how we go.
So you can see-- actually
if I go to package.json,
and I change that
to 2.0.3, hopefully,
when I refresh the page, ta-da!
You see Site updated,
refresh to get the latest.
Whereas if I do 2.0.4,
but I look in the console,
you can see we just get
this-- Service worker moved
from 2.0.3 to 2.0.4.
So it's a way for
me to kind of decide
how much do I want to bother
the person at the other end?
OK, I don't want to take up
too much more of your time.
But I do think it is
worth looking very finely
at the fetch itself.
This is the function that's
going to be called whenever
you make a request to the page.
One thing is, if the
image ends in @1x,
I always respond with a 1.5x.
This means that I only
have to cache the 1.5x.
And I would just hot swap it.
It doesn't matter.
You've asked for the
1x, you get the 1.5x.
In my case, it's always
background size cover.
So I can respond
with a bigger image.
And it means I don't have
to cache the 1x and the 1.5x
offline.
It's handy.
If the request itself
doesn't end with devsummit,
then I just say, stick
to the current request.
If, however, you have
asked for the home page,
I go through the sessions.
And I basically
look at each day.
And I adjust for PST.
And then I say, if you're
inside the first day,
respond with live day
one from the cache.
If you're inside day two,
respond with live day two
from the cache.
And if not, you're
going to respond
with the devsummit/home.
And then, if there
are any errors,
just respond with
devsummit/home.
So that means that
what we get is
we basically call this first.
So we're saying
either we're just
going to leave the
request as it is,
or if it's a request
for the home page,
we might remap it just like the
server was doing in the Python.
We have to replicate that
behavior in the service worker.
And I guess if you had
a JavaScript server,
you might actually use
the isomoroso-- iso--
I'm as bad as Jake.
He couldn't say
"isomorphic" either.
Isomorphic JavaScript-- there we
go-- to do the same logic here
of going is this on
conference day one, day two?
If not, respond with
whichever page, whatever.
So we're doing the same kind
of remapping and rewriting.
And if we didn't do that,
then on the conference days,
you might get the old home page.
And you'd have to
kind of force refresh
to see the livestream,
which we don't want.
So we potentially remap
the request if it's needed.
If not, we'll just
leave it as is.
Check for the cache.
If the cache has got
that request, which
for all of the files apart from
say, like, YouTube thumbnails,
anything for Analytics, or
basically any third party
stuff, it won't exist in the
cache, and we'll just fetch it.
And for everything that
we do have from the cache,
we'll just respond
if we've got it.
So, goodness me, that was a
lot of information, wasn't it?
But it has been a
few days since I've
had chance to record a video.
So there you go.
That's what happens if I
don't record them often.
At this point, I think the
site is pretty much shippable.
And this will probably
be the last Dev Diary
that I'm going to record.
And maybe if there's
something that comes up
in the next little while that's
like, oh, I must tell you,
then I'll be back.
But for now, all
I want to say is
thank you so much for coming
on this journey with me.
Thank you for all the
comments, all the feedback,
all the chatter.
And I hope you've enjoyed coming
along this journey with me.
I've enjoyed having you along.
And you know what, let's
do this again sometime.
But maybe you can do the coding.
Yes!
What a concept.
Toodle-oo!
[MUSIC PLAYING]